{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue234;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c93333;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Research Methods\
Unit 1 - 9 hours - Weeks 1 and 2\
\
There\'92s two types of research;\
\
Basic Research\
Applied Research \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Basic research
\b0  is for discovery, documentation, research and development \
\

\b Applied research 
\b0 is for practical applications\
\
\
Another distinct difference in research is empiricism vs rationalism\
\

\b Rationalism:
\b0  we can get significant results based independently of senses, based on facts. Example, mathematics\

\b Empiricism:
\b0  our senses are the ultimate source of knowledge and concepts\
\
Also, social science research is what we do for computing \
\
We have 
\b descriptive research 
\b0 in describing systematically a situation or problem. So, describing living conditions, describes an attitude about a specific topic\
\
We also have 
\b correlational(relational) research
\b0  to discover a correlation between two aspects of a situation\
 \
Finally, we have 
\b explanatory(causal) research
\b0  to explain the relationship between these two aspects of a situation\
Most demanding of the three\
\
We have 
\b quantitative research 
\b0 (structured) - you know what time of questions you\'92re going to ask\
And 
\b qualitative research 
\b0 (unstructured) - you have room for alternative questions\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reading Assignment 1.3.R1\
Key elements of research, and expectation 
\f0\b0\fs48 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Abstract:\
The implications for theory in psychosocial rehabilitation are considered. \
Introduction:\
There have been no studies on the effects of rehabilitation. This is what this paper is going to do. \
They give two hypotheses in the introduction to be tested against one another\
Method:\
Has a sample of people. Describes them.\
Measures:\
Scales on self-esteem and proficiency. Reliability of these scales. When they were measured. Randomization is more reliable. \
Procedure:\
Exactly what happened. Who was selected. How many were selected.\
Results:\
Tables, \
Conclusion:\
Contrary or for initial expectations?\
Possible explanations \
References\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reading Assignment 1.3.R2\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs48 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Language of research\
Major issues in research and evaluation\
5 big words:\
\
Theoretical - math\
Empirical - senses\
Nomothetic  - generalizing \
Probabilistic - can\'92t have laws that pertain to all cases\
Causal - how our causes affect the outcomes\
\
Types of questions we can ask: 3 (descriptive, correlational, causal)\
Time is an important issue with writing research papers. \
\
Was it done in one sitting (cross-sectional) or done over a period of time(longitudinal)\
Was the longitudinal study have only a few measures (repeated < 2) or a lot of measures ( time series >  20)\
\
Types of Relationships:\
comparing two variables (entity that can take on multiple values)\
Causal and Correlated relationships\
No relationship at all\
Positive relationship (number of years in school vs salary)\
Negative relationship (severity of illness vs dosage level)\
\
HYPOTHESIS\
\
More social research is inductive reasoning AND deductive reasoning\
There are usually two hypothesesis; alternative (your prediction) and the null hypothesis (remaining possible outcomes)\
\
DATA PREPARATION\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl384\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \cb4 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the formulation of two mutually exclusive hypothesis statements that, together, exhaust all possible outcomes\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
the testing of these so that one is necessarily accepted and the other rejected\cb1 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 there are two ways to store data; statistical and database programs\
First you have log the data\
Then you have to check its accuracy (put a range in, put values in twice)\
Make a cookbook with this information:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl384\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \cb4 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
variable name\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
variable description\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
variable format (number, data, text)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
instrument/method of collection\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
date collected\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
respondent or group\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
variable location (in database)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
notes\cb1 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Descriptive statistics describe the basic features, what does the data show\
Inferential statistics\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}